PREV RECIPENEXT RECIPE
Classic Pumpkin Pie
Recipe courtesy of Food Network Kitchen
From: Food Network Magazine

 Classic Pumpkin Pie
Total:2 hr 45 minPrep: 1 hr 5 minCook: 1 hr 40 min
Yield: 8 to 10 servings
Level: Easy

Ingredients
1 disk Pie Dough, recipe follows, (plus 1 disk, if decorating)
All-purpose flour, for dusting
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
2/3 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
Coarse sugar, for sprinkling (optional)
Basic Pie Dough:
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
4 tablespoons cold vegetable shortening
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon apple cider vinegar
1/2 teaspoon salt
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces


Directions

Roll out the dough into a 12-inch round on a lightly floured surface. Ease into a 9-inch pie plate. Fold the overhanging dough under itself and crimp the edges with your fingers. Pierce the bottom and sides all over with a fork. Chill at least 1 hour or overnight.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line the chilled dough with foil and fill with pie weights or dried beans. Transfer to the oven and bake until the edges are golden, 20 to 25 minutes. Remove the foil and weights and continue baking until the crust is golden all over, 10 to 15 more minutes. Transfer to a rack and let cool completely.

Make the filling: Gently whisk the pumpkin, cream, granulated sugar, 2 eggs, the cinnamon, nutmeg, vanilla and salt (do not overmix). Beat the remaining egg and brush on the crust edge; sprinkle with coarse sugar. Pour the filling into the crust and bake until set around the edges, 50 minutes to 1 hour (the middle will still jiggle slightly). Transfer to a rack; let cool completely.

Basic Pie Dough:
Pulse the flour, shortening, sugar, vinegar and salt in a food processor until it looks like fine meal. Add the butter and pulse until it is in pea-size pieces. Sprinkle in 1/4 cup ice water and pulse until the dough begins to come together. Pinch the dough with your fingers; if it doesn't hold together, add up to 4 more tablespoons ice water, 1 tablespoon at a time, and pulse again.

Divide the dough between 2 sheets of plastic wrap and pat each into a disk. Wrap tightly and refrigerate until firm, at least 1 hour or preferably overnight, or freeze up to 2 months
